---
title: Monitoring Azure Maps
description: Start here to learn how to monitor Azure Maps
author: John Heraghty
ms.author:
ms.service: maps
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: subject-monitoring
ms.date: 04/27/2021
---

# Monitoring Azure Maps

When you have critical applications and business processes relying on Azure resources, you want to monitor those resources for their availability, performance, and operation. 

This article describes the monitoring data generated by Azure Maps, and how to analyze and alert on this data with [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md). If you are unfamiliar with the features of Azure Monitor common to all Azure services that use it, read [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md).

You can monitor your data with client-side and server-side metrics. When using server-side metrics, you can monitor the data stored in Azure Maps with the following options:

* **Monitor from Azure Maps portal:** You can monitor with the metrics available within the **Metrics** tab of the Azure Maps account. The metrics on this tab include availability and usage metrics. By default, these metrics have a retention period of 7 days. To learn more, see the [Monitoring data collected from Azure Maps](#monitoring-from-azure-maps) section of this article.

* **Monitor with metrics in Azure monitor:** You can monitor the metrics of your Azure Maps account and create dashboards from the Azure Monitor. Azure Monitor collects the Azure Maps metrics by default, you don’t have to configure anything explicitly. These metrics are collected with one-minute granularity, the granularity may vary based on the metric you choose. By default, these metrics have a retention period of 30 days. Most of the metrics that are available from the previous options are also available in these metrics. The dimension values for the metrics such as API name are case-insensitive. So you need to use case-insensitive comparison when doing string comparisons on these dimension values. To learn more, see the [Analyze metric data](#analyze-metric-data) section of this article.

<!-- Optional diagram showing monitoring for your service. If you need help creating one, contact robb@microsoft.com -->

## Monitor overview

The **Overview** page in the Azure portal for each Azure Maps account includes a brief view of the resource usage, such as total requests, total errors, and availability.

## What is Azure Monitor?

Azure Maps creates monitoring data using [Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/overview.md), which is a full stack monitoring service in Azure. Azure Monitor provides a complete set of features to monitor your Azure resources in addition to resources in other clouds and on-premises.

If you're not already familiar with monitoring Azure services, start with the article [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md) which describes the following concepts:

* What is Azure Monitor?
* Costs associated with monitoring
* Monitoring data collected in Azure
* Configuring data collection
* Standard tools in Azure for analyzing and alerting on monitoring data

The following sections build on this article by describing the specific data gathered from Azure Maps and providing examples for configuring data collection and analyzing this data with Azure tools.


## Monitoring data 

Azure Maps collects the same kinds of monitoring data as other Azure resources that are described in [Monitoring data from Azure resources](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md#monitoring-data). See [Monitoring Azure Maps data reference](monitor-azure-maps-reference.md) for detailed information on the metrics and logs created by Azure Maps.

The **Overview** page in the Azure portal for each Azure Maps item includes a brief view of the maps usage including its number of requests and availability. This is useful information but only a small amount of the monitoring data available. Some of this data is collected automatically and available for analysis as soon as you create your map while you can enable additional data collection with some configuration.

:::image type="content" source="media/monitor-azure-maps/overview-page.png" alt-text="Overview page":::

## Collection and routing

Platform metrics and the Activity log are collected and stored automatically, but can be routed to other locations by using a diagnostic setting.  

Resource Logs are not collected and stored until you create a diagnostic setting and route them to one or more locations.

See [Create diagnostic setting to collect platform logs and metrics in Azure](../azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings.md) for the detailed process for creating a diagnostic setting using the Azure portal and some diagnostic query examples. When you create a diagnostic setting, you specify which categories of logs to collect. The categories for Azure Maps are listed in [Azure Maps monitoring data reference](monitor-azure-maps-reference.md#resource-logs).

The metrics and logs you can collect are discussed in the following sections.

## Analyzing metrics

You can analyze metrics for Azure Maps with metrics from other Azure services using metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](../azure-monitor/platform/metrics-getting-started.md) for details on using this tool. 

For a list of the platform metrics collected for Azure Maps, see [Monitoring Azure Maps data reference metrics](monitor-azure-maps-reference.md#metrics)  

All metrics for Azure Maps are in the namespace **Standard metrics**. You can use the following dimensions with these metrics when adding a filter to a chart:


* ApiCategory
* ApiName
* ResponseCode
* ResultType

For reference, you can see a list of [all resource metrics supported in Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported.md).

### View operation level metrics for Azure Maps

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).

2. Select **Monitor** from the left-hand navigation bar, and select **Metrics**.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/monitor-azure-maps/monitor-metrics-blade.png" alt-text="Metrics pane in Azure Monitor":::

3. From the **Metrics** pane > **Select a scope** > choose the required **subscription**, and **resource group**. For the **Resource type**, select **Azure Maps accounts**, choose one of your existing Azure Maps accounts, and select **Apply**.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/monitor-azure-maps/select-maps-account.png" alt-text="Choose an Azure Maps account to view metrics":::

4. Next you can select a metric from the list of available metrics. You can select metrics specific to availability and usage. To learn in detail about all the available metrics in this list, see the [Metrics by category](monitor-azure-maps-reference.md) article. In this example, let's select **Usage** and **Count** as the aggregation value.

   In addition to these details, you can also select the **Time range** and **Time granularity** of the metrics. At max, you can view metrics for the past 30 days.  After you apply the filter, a chart is displayed based on your filter. You can see the number of usage units consumed per hour for the selected period.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/monitor-azure-maps/metric-types.png" alt-text="Choose a metric from the Azure portal":::

### Add filters to metrics

You can also filter metrics and the chart displayed by a specific **ApiCategory**, **ApiName**, **ResultType**, and **ResponseCode**. To filter the metrics, select **Add filter** and choose the required property such as **ApiName** and select a value such as **MapTile.GetMapTile**. The graph then displays the request units consumed for the query operation for the selected period. The operations executed via Stored procedure are not logged so they are not available under the ApiName metric.

:::image type="content" source="./media/monitor-azure-maps/add-metrics-filter.png" alt-text="Add a filter to select the metric granularity":::

You can group metrics by using the **Apply splitting** option. For example, you can group the request units per API name and view the graph for all the operations at once as shown in the following image:

:::image type="content" source="./media/monitor-azure-maps/apply-metrics-splitting.png" alt-text="Add apply splitting filter":::

<!--## Analyzing logs

<!-- REQUIRED. Please keep headings in this order
If you don't support resource logs, say so. Some services may be only onboarded to metrics and the activity log. -->

<!-- Data in Azure Monitor Logs is stored in tables where each table has its own set of unique properties.  

All resource logs in Azure Monitor have the same fields followed by service-specific fields. The common schema is outlined in [Azure Monitor resource log schema](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-logs-schema#top-level-resource-logs-schema) The schema for Azure Maps resource logs is found in the [Azure Maps Data Reference](monitor-azure-maps-reference.md#schemas) 

The [Activity log](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/activity-log) is a type of platform log in Azure that provides insight into subscription-level events. You can view it independently or route it to Azure Monitor Logs, where you can do much more complex queries using Log Analytics.  

For a list of the types of resource logs collected for Azure Maps, see [Monitoring Azure Maps data reference](monitor-azure-maps-reference.md#resource-logs)  

For a list of the tables used by Azure Monitor Logs and queryable by Log Analytics, see [Monitoring Azure Maps data reference](monitor-azure-maps-reference.md##azure-monitor-logs-tables) 

<!--  Optional: Call out additional information to help your customers. For example, you can include additional information here about log usage or what logs are most important. Remember that the UI is subject to change quite often so you will need to maintain these screenshots yourself if you add them in. -->

<!-- ### Sample Kusto queries -->


 <!-- Important When you select **Logs** from the Azure Maps menu, Log Analytics is opened with the query scope set to the current Azure Maps account. This means that log queries will only include data from that resource. If you want to run a query that includes data from other [resource] or data from other Azure services, select **Logs** from the **Azure Monitor** menu. See [Log query scope and time range in Azure Monitor Log Analytics](/azure/azure-monitor/log-query/scope/) for details.

<!-- REQUIRED if you support logs. Please keep headings in this order -->
<!-- Add sample Log Analytics Kusto queries for your service. -->


<!-- REQUIRED: Include queries that are helpful for figuring out the health and state of your service. Ideally, use some of these queries in the alerts section. It's possible that some of your queries may be in the Log Analytics UI (sample or example queries). Check if so.  -->

<!-- Following are queries that you can use to help you monitor your Azure Maps resource. 

<!-- Put in a code section here. -->  
<!-- ```Kusto
   
```-->

## Alerts

Azure Monitor alerts proactively notify you when important conditions are found in your monitoring data. They allow you to identify and address issues in your system before your customers notice them. You can set alerts on [metrics](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric-overview.md), [logs](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-unified-log.md), and the [activity log](../azure-monitor/alerts/activity-log-alerts.md). Different types of alerts have benefits and drawbacks

You can find a detailed list of alert rules from the Azure portal. To learn more, see the [manage metric alerts](../azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-metric.md) article.

The following table lists a few alert rules for Azure Maps.

| Alert type | Condition | Description  |
|:---|:---|:---|
|API availability rate (metric alert) |Dimension name: APIName, Operator: Less than, Dimension values: 50%  | Used to monitor availability per API. |
|API usage (metric alert) |Operator: Greater than, Aggregation type: Count, Threshold value: 100 | Used to monitor total number of requests per API |
| Rotate keys(activity log alert)| Event level: Informational , Status: started| Alerts when the account keys are rotated. You can update your application with the new keys. |

## Next steps

- See [Monitoring Azure Maps data reference](monitor-azure-maps-reference.md) for a reference of the metrics, logs, and other important values created by Azure Maps.
- See [Monitoring Azure resources with Azure Monitor](../azure-monitor/essentials/monitor-azure-resource.md) for details on monitoring Azure resources.
